[Doc-only PR] Add release checklist template (#1555)
dotnet/source-build: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/releases/release_checklist.md

# .NET Core Release Checklist

## Release Versions

_The set of .NET Core versions that are being released as a unit._

* 2.1.X: <runtime/SDK>
* 3.1.X: <runtime/SDK>

> 1. - [ ] Incase of 2.x, run auto-update(refer docs). Incase of 3.X:

Reviewer: > refer docs

Missing a link?

Author: I think I meant refer OneNote. Changing it.

> 1. - [ ] Incase of 2.x, run auto-update(refer docs). Incase of 3.X:

Reviewer: Break down into 2.x vs. 3.x more directly?

```markdown
1. [ ] Update target branch to new version.
   - For 2.x:
     - [ ] If releasing 2.x, run auto-update (refer to docs).
   - For 3.x:
     - [ ] if maestro auto-PR is active, then verify SHA1s in version.Details with manifest versions in VSU share dir (refer docs), make sure that we match the versions
     - [ ] in-case auto-PR updates are unavailable, checkout a local branch for the pertinent version and run darc updates(refer docs). 
       - [ ] Push this local branch upstream and start the release PR for the N version that is to be released.
```

1. [ ] Update target branch to new version.
   - For 2.x:
     - [ ] If releasing 2.x, run auto-update (refer to docs).
   - For 3.x:
     - [ ] if maestro auto-PR is active, then verify SHA1s in version.Details with manifest versions in VSU share dir (refer docs), make sure that we match the versions
     - [ ] in-case auto-PR updates are unavailable, checkout a local branch for the pertinent version and run darc updates(refer docs). 
       - [ ] Push this local branch upstream and start the release PR for the N version that is to be released.

      - [ ] if maestro auto-PR is active, then verify SHA1s in version.Details with manifest versions in VSU share dir (refer docs), make sure that we match the versions
      - [ ] in-case auto-PR updates are unavailable, checkout a local branch for the pertinent version and run darc updates(refer docs). 
          - [ ] Push this local branch upstream and start the release PR for the N version that is to be released.
1. - [ ] Change the `PrivateSourceBuiltArtifactsPackageVersion` in `eng/Versions.props` to match N-1 release artifacts

> 1. - [ ] Make sure that `source-build/ProdConFeed.txt` contains the latest feed required for the release. For info on latest feed (refer docs)

Reviewer: Should we do these two points in the same PR as the auto-update or in a new one?

Author: I'll add more details. The change needs to happen in any case. I think to word it better - I'll use verify instead of `Make sure` and `Change`

> 1. - [ ] Verify that we are building with the appropriate stability and release tag (either none for RTM, or "preview1" etc).  This can apply to the SDK itself as well as the core-setup runtime component

Reviewer: Does this mean we should do a local build? Where should we find `dotnet` to run these commands?

Author: Right. I'll clarify that.

        
            dotnet --info
            dotnet --version

      - [ ] Verify ASP.NET package versions used in templates are correct (dependencies.props may need to be updated)

>       - [ ] Verify MS.NETCore.App packages versions used in downlevel templates are correct (dependencies.props may need to be updated)

Reviewer: How? Is it enough to check the projects that the smoke test generates or should we directly inspect the files in the SDK?

Author: Inspecting the files should be a better way to go. @crummel any comments on this?

Reviewer 2: Looking at the project.assets.json is probably what I would say is easiest, whether that's a smoke-test project or a manual one.

> 1. - [ ] Complete prebuilt and poison audit (if applicable) 

Reviewer: When is this applicable?

Author: When the baseline has a delta. I'll add the info.

1. - [ ] Remove new prebuilts, if any. Ideally any new prebuilts that show up in offline builds have to be removed. In some cases, new prebuilts show up in Production builds but gets purged in offline builds automatically as they are not packaged(they may not be needed for the actual build).
1. - [ ] Stall tagging the release until we have the final validation. Incase of significant delays, notify(PR is ready, waiting on the final validation) the distro maintainer with PR link.
1. - [ ] Re-validate the SHA1s in Versions file with the manifest in VSU share dir

> 1. - [ ] Tag runtime version (e.g." v2.1.0") with an annotated (preferably signed) tag including runtime and SDK versions, e.g. "Release for 2.1.0 runtime and 2.1.300 SDK."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. - [ ] Tag runtime version (e.g. "v2.1.0-runtime") with an annotated (preferably signed) tag including runtime and SDK versions, e.g. "Release for 2.1.0 runtime and 2.1.300 SDK."
```

>       - [ ] `git tag -s v<X.X.X-runtime/SDK> <SHA1>` . E.g - $ git tag -s v2.1.0-runtime c7012bcc8

Reviewer: Parent seems to cover this:

```suggestion
      - `git tag -s v<X.X.X-runtime/SDK> <SHA1>` . E.g - $ git tag -s v2.1.0-runtime c7012bcc8
```

1. - [ ] Tag SDK version (e.g. "v2.1.300-SDK") with the same annotation, also preferably signed
1. - [ ] Push these tags to GitHub

>       - [ ] `git push <remote> v2.1.0-runtime && git push <remote> v2.1.300-SDK`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `git push <remote> v2.1.0-runtime && git push <remote> v2.1.300-SDK`
```

>             Do not use "git push --tags" unless you have a fresh repo with no other tags - this will push all your tags.

Reviewer: Include a note that if we need to re-tag, to add a "sub-patch" version to the new tag rather than publishing a new tag with the same name? (Deleting the old tag is still good to make it less confusing when everything's complete though.)

Author: We usually re-tag. I'll add the info. Good catch! 👍

1. - [ ] Notify the distro maintainer/s about the release tags
1. - [ ] Download the tarball from CI
1. - [ ] Upload the tarball to Azure blob feed for source-build

>             <Source-build-blob-feed-container>/redhat/<branch_version>/<SDK_version>/dotnet-<sdk_version>-<RID><version>.tar.gz

Reviewer: What is `<version>`?

Author: RID_version. Adding that info. 👍

# .NET Core Release Checklist

## Release Versions

_The set of .NET Core versions that are being released as a unit._

* 2.1.X: <runtime/SDK>
* 3.1.X: <runtime/SDK>

1. - [ ] Update target branch to new version.
   - For 2.x:

>      - [ ] If releasing 2.x, run auto-update (refer to docs).

Reviewer: > refer to docs

Are there links missing where this phrase shows up in the template?

Author: Didn't want to put A&D One Note links here as the general audience may start requesting access in large numbers.

Reviewer: Maybe then "refer to internal Microsoft docs"? Or else people might start commenting on the release issues themselves asking what docs are being referred to. 😛

If this were for a broader set of people to use, I'd want to include at least the name of the OneNote and the path to the applicable page, but since source-build is a small team I suppose it is fine to have a general statement.

   - For 3.x:
     - [ ] if maestro auto-PR is active, then verify SHA1s in version.Details with manifest versions in VSU share dir (refer docs), make sure that we match the versions

>      - [ ] in-case auto-PR updates are unavailable, checkout a local branch for the pertinent version and run darc updates(refer docs). 

Reviewer: (Nit) Sounds like a preventative measure with current wording, but should only be done if condition is met

```suggestion
     - [ ] if auto-PR updates are unavailable, checkout a local branch for the pertinent version and run darc updates(refer docs). 
```

       - [ ] Push this local branch upstream and start the release PR for the N version that is to be released.
1. - [ ] Verify that the `PrivateSourceBuiltArtifactsPackageVersion` in `eng/Versions.props` match N-1 release artifacts
1. - [ ] Verify that `source-build/ProdConFeed.txt` contains the latest feed required for the release. For info on latest feed (refer OneNote)

> 1. - [ ] Verify that we are building with the appropriate stability and release tag (either none for RTM, or "preview1" etc).  This can apply to the SDK itself as well as the core-setup runtime component. Using a local build:

Reviewer: Since these instructions are for 2.1.x and 3.1.x, seems like we can actually remove the choices since it should always be stable, right?

>             dotnet --info

Reviewer: Still not quite clear to me where we should get this. Maybe include the path to where this is extracted after running smoke tests? (Or how to grab it from local build artifacts?)

            dotnet --version

      - [ ] Verify ASP.NET package versions used in templates are correct (dependencies.props may need to be updated)
      - [ ] Verify MS.NETCore.App packages versions used in downlevel templates are correct (dependencies.props may need to be updated)
1. - [ ] Complete prebuilt and poison audit. Review the baseline changes to find out if there are any new prebuilts. 
1. - [ ] Remove new prebuilts, if any. Ideally any new prebuilts that show up in offline builds have to be removed. In some cases, new prebuilts show up in Production builds but gets purged in offline builds automatically as they are not packaged(they may not be needed for the actual build).

> 1. - [ ] Stall tagging the release until we have the final validation. Incase of significant delays, notify(PR is ready, waiting on the final validation) the distro maintainer with PR link.

Reviewer: (Nit) I actually think I'd flip this around to put the action statement (for the checkbox) in the first sentence:

```suggestion
1. - [ ] If significant delays are anticipated, notify the distro maintainer with PR link mentioning that a PR is ready, but we're waiting on the final validation. Do not tag the release until we have the final validation for the Microsoft build.
```

1. - [ ] Re-validate the SHA1s in Versions file with the manifest in VSU share dir
1. - [ ] Tag runtime version (e.g. "v2.1.0-runtime") with an annotated (preferably signed) tag including runtime and SDK versions, e.g. "Release for 2.1.0 runtime and 2.1.300 SDK."
      - `git tag -s v<X.X.X-runtime/SDK> <SHA1>` . E.g - $ git tag -s v2.1.0-runtime c7012bcc8
1. - [ ] Tag SDK version (e.g. "v2.1.300-SDK") with the same annotation, also preferably signed
1. - [ ] Push these tags to GitHub
      - `git push <remote> v2.1.0-runtime && git push <remote> v2.1.300-SDK`
            

>             Do not use "git push --tags" unless you have a fresh repo with no other tags - this will push all your tags.

Reviewer: Reduce indent to fix code formatting:

```suggestion
        Do not use "git push --tags" unless you have a fresh repo with no other tags - this will push all your tags.
```

> 1. - Push these tags to GitHub
>       - `git push <remote> v2.1.0-runtime && git push <remote> v2.1.300-SDK`
> 
>             Do not use "git push --tags" unless you have a fresh repo with no other tags - this will push all your tags.

> 1. - Push these tags to GitHub
>       - `git push <remote> v2.1.0-runtime && git push <remote> v2.1.300-SDK`
> 
>         Do not use "git push --tags" unless you have a fresh repo with no other tags - this will push all your tags.

> 1. - [ ] Incase there's a respin, retag the with the new changes. A sub-patch version tag for SDK and runtime would have to be generated. E.g - v2.1.300.1-SDK

Reviewer: (Nit)

```suggestion
1. - [ ] If there's a respin, retag the with the new changes. A sub-patch version tag for SDK and runtime would have to be generated. E.g - v2.1.300.1-SDK
```

1. - [ ] Notify the distro maintainer/s about the release tags
1. - [ ] Download the tarball from CI
1. - [ ] Upload the tarball to Azure blob feed for source-build

>             <Source-build-blob-feed-container>/redhat/<branch_version>/<SDK_version>/dotnet-<sdk_version>-<RID><RID_version>.tar.gz

Reviewer: Is this talking about e.g. the `8` in `rhel.8-x64`? I believe that's simply considered part of the RID:

```suggestion
            <Source-build-blob-feed-container>/redhat/<branch_version>/<SDK_version>/dotnet-<sdk_version>-<RID>.tar.gz
```

Or something else?
